add normalization guideline in security best practice (#9961)
istio/istio.io: content/en/docs/ops/best-practices/security/index.md

the authorization policy named `allow-nothing` makes sure all traffic is denied by default.
From there, other authorization policies allow traffic based on specific conditions.

### Understand path normalization in authorization policy

> The enforcement point of authorization policy is the Envoy proxy which is different from the actual resource access point that is

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The enforcement point of authorization policies is the Envoy proxy which is different from the actual resource access point that is
```

usually in the backend application. A policy mismatch happens when the Envoy proxy and the backend application interprets the request
differently.

The mismatch leads to either unexpected rejection or policy bypass. The latter is usually a security incident that needs to be
fixed immediately, and it's also why we need path normalization in the authorization policy.

For example, you have an authorization policy to reject requests with path `/data/secret`. A request with path `/data//secret` will

> not be rejected because it does not match with the path defined in the authorization policy due to the extra forward slash `/` in the path.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
not be rejected because it does not match the path defined in the authorization policy due to the extra forward slash `/` in the path.
```

> not be rejected because it does not match with the path defined in the authorization policy due to the extra forward slash `/` in the path.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
not be rejected because it does not match the path defined in the authorization policy due to the extra forward slash `/` in the path.
```

The request goes through and later the backend application returns the same response that it returns for the path `/data/secret`
because the backend application normalizes the path `/data//secret` to `/data/secret` as it considers the double forward slashes

> `//` is equivalent to a single forward slash `/`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`//` equivalent to a single forward slash `/`.
```

In this example, the policy enforcement point (Envoy proxy) had a different understanding of the path than to the resource access
point (backend application). The different understanding caused the mismatch and subsequently the bypass of the authorization policy.

This becomes a complicated problem because of the following factors:

* Lacking of a clear standard of the normalization.

* Backends and frameworks in different layers have their own special normalization.

* Applications can even have arbitrary normalizations for its own use cases.

Istio authorization policy implements built-in support of various basic normalization options to help you to better address
the problem:

* Read the [Guideline on configuring the path normalization option](/docs/ops/best-practices/security/#guideline-on-configuring-the-path-normalization-option)

>   to understand which normalization option you should use.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  to understand which normalization options you may want to use.
```

* Read the [Customize your system on path normalization](/docs/ops/best-practices/security/#customize-your-system-on-path-normalization) to
  understand the detail of each normalization option.

> * Read the [Less common normalization configurations](/docs/ops/best-practices/security/#less-common-normalization-configurations) for

Reviewer: Did this section get renamed "Mitigation for unsupported normalization" in [PR #9917](https://github.com/istio/istio.io/pull/9917)?  Also, do you want to add a bullet item for "Safer Authorization Policy Pattern" from that commit?

Author: I was actually just using it as a placeholder. Once the other PR is merged, I will update here and a few other places to refer to the new items.

Author: updated.

  alternative solutions in case you need any unsupported normalization options.

### Guideline on configuring the path normalization option

#### Case 1: You do not need normalization at all

> Before diving into the details of configuring normalization, you should first make sure if you actually need any of the normalizations.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Before diving into the details of configuring normalization, you should first make sure whether any of the normalizations are needed.
```

> You do not need the normalization if you do not use authorization policy in the first place or if your authorization policy does not

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You do not need the normalization if you do not use authorization policies or if your authorization policies do not
```

use any `path` fields.

> You may not need the normalization if all your authorization policies follow the safer authorization pattern which the worst

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You may not need the normalization if all your authorization policies follow the safer authorization pattern which, in the worst
```
If you didn't add the "Safer Authorization Policy Pattern" bullet point earlier, I would add a link here to that section.

> case is unexpected rejection instead of policy bypass.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
case, is unexpected rejection instead of policy bypass.
```

#### Case 2: You need normalization but not sure which normalization option to use

You need normalization but you have no idea of which option to use. The safest choice is the strictest normalization option
that provides the maximum level of normalization in the authorization policy.

> This is often the case due to the fact that complicated multi-layered systems making it practically impossible to figure

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This is often the case due to the fact that complicated multi-layered systems make it practically impossible to figure
```

> out which normalization are actually happening to the request.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
out which normalization are actually happening to the request beyond the enforcement point.
```

        notPaths: ["/public"]
{{< /text >}}

### Understand path normalization in authorization policy

> The enforcement point of authorization policies is the Envoy proxy which is different from the actual resource access point that is
> usually in the backend application. A policy mismatch happens when the Envoy proxy and the backend application interprets the request

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The enforcement point for authorization policies is the Envoy proxy instead of the usual resource access point in the backend application. A policy mismatch happens when the Envoy proxy and the backend application interpret the request
```

differently.

> The mismatch leads to either unexpected rejection or policy bypass. The latter is usually a security incident that needs to be

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
A mismatch can lead to either unexpected rejection or a policy bypass. The latter is usually a security incident that needs to be
```

fixed immediately, and it's also why we need path normalization in the authorization policy.

> For example, you have an authorization policy to reject requests with path `/data/secret`. A request with path `/data//secret` will

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
For example, consider an authorization policy to reject requests with path `/data/secret`. A request with path `/data//secret` will
```

not be rejected because it does not match the path defined in the authorization policy due to the extra forward slash `/` in the path.

The request goes through and later the backend application returns the same response that it returns for the path `/data/secret`
because the backend application normalizes the path `/data//secret` to `/data/secret` as it considers the double forward slashes
`//` equivalent to a single forward slash `/`.

> In this example, the policy enforcement point (Envoy proxy) had a different understanding of the path than to the resource access

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
In this example, the policy enforcement point (Envoy proxy) had a different understanding of the path than the resource access
```

point (backend application). The different understanding caused the mismatch and subsequently the bypass of the authorization policy.

This becomes a complicated problem because of the following factors:

> * Lacking of a clear standard of the normalization.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* Lack of a clear standard for the normalization.
```

* Backends and frameworks in different layers have their own special normalization.

> * Applications can even have arbitrary normalizations for its own use cases.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* Applications can even have arbitrary normalizations for their own use cases.
```

Istio authorization policy implements built-in support of various basic normalization options to help you to better address
the problem:

> * Read the [Guideline on configuring the path normalization option](/docs/ops/best-practices/security/#guideline-on-configuring-the-path-normalization-option)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* Refer to [Guideline on configuring the path normalization option](/docs/ops/best-practices/security/#guideline-on-configuring-the-path-normalization-option)
```

  to understand which normalization options you may want to use.

> * Read the [Customize your system on path normalization](/docs/ops/best-practices/security/#customize-your-system-on-path-normalization) to

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* Refer to [Customize your system on path normalization](/docs/ops/best-practices/security/#customize-your-system-on-path-normalization) to
```

  understand the detail of each normalization option.

> * Read the [Mitigation for unsupported normalization](/docs/ops/best-practices/security/#mitigation-for-unsupported-normalization) for

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* Refer to [Mitigation for unsupported normalization](/docs/ops/best-practices/security/#mitigation-for-unsupported-normalization) for
```

  alternative solutions in case you need any unsupported normalization options.

### Guideline on configuring the path normalization option

#### Case 1: You do not need normalization at all

> Before diving into the details of configuring normalization, you should first make sure whether any of the normalizations are needed.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Before diving into the details of configuring normalization, you should first make sure that normalizations are needed.
```

> You do not need the normalization if you do not use authorization policies or if your authorization policies do not

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
You do not need normalization if you don't use authorization policies or if your authorization policies don't
```

use any `path` fields.

> You may not need the normalization if all your authorization policies follow the safer authorization pattern which, in the worst

Reviewer 3: what is the "safer authorization pattern"? We should link it from here

Author: added link

> You may not need the normalization if all your authorization policies follow the [safer authorization pattern](/docs/ops/best-practices/security/#safer-authorization-policy-patterns)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
You may not need normalization if all your authorization policies follow the [safer authorization pattern](/docs/ops/best-practices/security/#safer-authorization-policy-patterns)
```

> which, in the worst case, is unexpected rejection instead of policy bypass.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
which, in the worst case, results in unexpected rejection instead of policy bypass.
```

#### Case 2: You need normalization but not sure which normalization option to use

You need normalization but you have no idea of which option to use. The safest choice is the strictest normalization option
that provides the maximum level of normalization in the authorization policy.

This is often the case due to the fact that complicated multi-layered systems make it practically impossible to figure

> out which normalization are actually happening to the request beyond the enforcement point.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
out which normalizations are actually happening to the request beyond the enforcement point.
```

> You could use less strict normalization option if it already satisfies your requirements and you are sure of its implications.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
You could use a less strict normalization option if it already satisfies your requirements and you are sure of its implications.
```

> For either options, make sure you write both positive and negative tests specifically for your requirements to verify the
> normalization is working as expected. The tests are useful in catching potential bypass issues caused by misunderstanding
> or incomplete knowledge of the normalization happening to your request.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
For either option, make sure you write both positive and negative tests specifically for your requirements to verify the
normalization is working as expected. The tests are useful in catching potential bypass issues caused by a misunderstanding
or incomplete knowledge of the normalization happening to your request.
```

> Refer to the [Customize your system on path normalization](/docs/ops/best-practices/security/#customize-your-system-on-path-normalization)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Refer to [Customize your system on path normalization](/docs/ops/best-practices/security/#customize-your-system-on-path-normalization)
```

> for more details of configuring the normalization option.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
for more details on configuring the normalization option.
```

#### Case 3: You need an unsupported normalization option

> If you need specific normalization option that is not supported by Istio yet, please follow the
> [Mitigation for unsupported normalization](/docs/ops/best-practices/security/#mitigation-for-unsupported-normalization)
> for customized normalization support or create a feature request to the Istio community.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
If you need a specific normalization option that is not supported by Istio yet, please follow
[Mitigation for unsupported normalization](/docs/ops/best-practices/security/#mitigation-for-unsupported-normalization)
for customized normalization support or create a feature request for the Istio community.
```
